100 SECTION II Autonomic Drugs
The sensory fibers in the nonadrenergic, noncholinergic sys-
tems are probably better termed “sensory-efferent” or “sensory-
local effector” fibers because, when activated by a sensory input,
they are capable of releasing transmitter peptides from the sensory
ending itself, from local axon branches, and from collaterals that
terminate in the autonomic ganglia. These peptides are potent
agonists in many autonomic effector tissues.
FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION OF
AUTONOMIC ACTIVITY
Autonomic function is integrated and regulated at many levels,
from the CNS to the effector cells. Most regulation uses nega-
tive feedback, but several other mechanisms have been identified.
Negative feedback is particularly important in the responses of the
ANS to the administration of autonomic drugs.
Central Integration
At the highest level—midbrain and medulla—the two divisions of
the ANS and the endocrine system are integrated with each other,
with sensory input, and with information from higher CNS cen-
ters, including the cerebral cortex. These interactions are such that
early investigators called the parasympathetic system a tropho-
tropic one (ie, leading to growth) used to “rest and digest” and
the sympathetic system an ergotropic one (ie, leading to energy
expenditure), which is activated for “fight or flight.” Although
such terms offer little insight into the mechanisms involved, they
do provide simple descriptions applicable to many of the actions
of the systems (Table 6-3). For example, slowing of the heart and
stimulation of digestive activity are typical energy-conserving and
energy-storing actions of the parasympathetic system. In contrast,
cardiac stimulation, increased blood sugar, and cutaneous vaso-
constriction are responses produced by sympathetic discharge that
are suited to fighting or surviving attack.

At a more subtle level of interactions in the brain stem,
medulla, and spinal cord, there are important cooperative interac-
tions between the parasympathetic and sympathetic systems. For
some organs, sensory fibers associated with the parasympathetic
system exert reflex control over motor outflow in the sympathetic
system. Thus, the sensory carotid sinus baroreceptor fibers in the
glossopharyngeal nerve have a major influence on sympathetic
outflow from the vasomotor center. This example is described in
greater detail in the following text. Similarly, parasympathetic sen-
sory fibers in the wall of the urinary bladder significantly influence
sympathetic inhibitory outflow to that organ. Within the ENS,
sensory fibers from the wall of the gut synapse on both pregan-
glionic and postganglionic motor neurons that control intestinal
smooth muscle and secretory cells (Figure 6-2).

A. Integration of Cardiovascular Function

Autonomic reflexes are particularly important in understand-
ing cardiovascular responses to autonomic drugs. As indicated
in Figure 6-7, the primary controlled variable in cardiovascular
function is mean arterial pressure. Changes in any variable

