urea transporter UT1 (UT-A, UTA-1) molecules into the apical 
membranes of collecting duct cells in the medulla.
Urea concentration in the medulla plays an important role 
maintaining the high osmolarity of the medulla and in the concen-
tration of urine. ADH secretion is regulated by serum osmolality 
and by volume status. A new class of drugs, the vaptans (see Agents 
That Alter Water Excretion), are ADH antagonists.

RENAL AUTACOIDS
A number of locally produced compounds exhibit physiologic 
effects within the kidney and are therefore referred to as autacoids, 
or paracrine factors. Several of these autacoids (adenosine, the pros-
taglandins, and urodilatin) appear to have important effects on the 
pharmacology of diuretics. Since these effects are complex, they 
will be treated independently of the individual tubule segments 
discussed above.

ADENOSINE
Adenosine is an unphosphorylated ribonucleoside whose actions 
in the kidney have been intensively studied. As in all tissues, renal 
adenosine concentrations rise in response to hypoxia and ATP 
consumption. In most tissues, hypoxia results in compensatory 
vasodilation and, if cardiac output is sufficient, increased blood 
flow. The kidney has different requirements because increased 
blood flow leads to an increase in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 
and greater solute delivery to the tubules. This increased delivery 
would increase tubule work and ATP consumption. In contrast, 
in the hypoxic kidney, adenosine actually decreases blood flow 
and GFR. Because the medulla is always more hypoxic than the 
cortex, adenosine increases Na+ reabsorption from the reduced 
flow in the cortex, so that delivery to medullary segments will be 
even further reduced.
There are four distinct adenosine receptors (A1, A2a, A2b, 
and A3), all of which have been found in the kidney. However, 
probably only one of these (A1) is of importance. The adenosine 
A1 receptor is found on the pre-glomerular afferent arteriole, as 
well as the PCT and most other tubule segments. Adenosine is 
known to affect ion transport in the PCT, the medullary TAL, 
and collecting tubules. In addition, adenosine (via A1 receptors 
on the afferent arteriole) reduces blood flow to the glomerulus 
(and GFR) and is also the key signaling molecule in the process of 
tubuloglomerular feedback. Adenosine receptor antagonists have 
generally been found to block the enhancement of NHE3 activ-
ity and thus exhibit diuretic activity (see below). It is particularly 
interesting that unlike other diuretics that act upstream of the 
collecting tubules, adenosine antagonists do not cause wasting 
of K+.

PROSTAGLANDINS
Prostaglandins contribute importantly to renal physiology and to 
the function of many other organs (see Chapter 18). Five prosta-
glandin subtypes (PGE2, PGI2, PGD2, PGF2α, and thromboxane