>: Management of Parkinsonism & Other Movement Disorders 493
structures is not yet fully understood, and it is not possible to
relate individual symptoms to involvement at specific sites.

M@ PARKINSONISM
Parkinsonism is characterized by a combination of rigidity, brady-
kinesia, tremor, and postural instability that can occur for a variety
of reasons but is usually idiopathic (Parkinson's disease or paralysis
agitans). Bradykinesia should be present before a diagnosis of Par-
kinson’s disease is made. Focal dystonic features may be present.
Cognitive decline occurs in many patients as the disease advances.
Other nonmotor symptoms include affective disorders (anxiety
or depression); confusion, cognitive impairment, or personality
changes; apathy; fatigue; abnormalities of autonomic function (eg,
sphincter or sexual dysfunction, dysphagia and choking, sweating
abnormalities, sialorrhea, or disturbances of blood pressure regula-
tion); sleep disorders; and sensory complaints or pain. The disease
is incurable, is generally progressive, and leads to increasing dis-
ability with time, but pharmacologic treatment may relieve motor
symptoms and improve the quality of life for many years.
Pathogenesis
The pathogenesis of parkinsonism seems to relate to a combina-
tion of impaired degradation of proteins, intracellular protein
accumulation and aggregation, oxidative stress, mitochondrial
damage, inflammatory cascades, and apoptosis. Studies in twins
suggest that genetic factors are important, especially when the
disease occurs in patients under age 50. Recognized genetic
abnormalities account for 10-15% of cases. Mutations of the
Q-synuclein gene at 4q21 or duplication and triplication of the
normal synuclein gene are associated with Parkinson's disease,
which is now widely recognized as a synucleinopathy. Mutations of
the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (ZLRRK2) gene at 12cen, and the
UCHLI gene may also cause autosomal dominant parkinsonism.
Mutations in the parkin gene (6q25.2-q27) cause early-onset,
autosomal recessive, familial parkinsonism, or sporadic juvenile-
onset parkinsonism. Several other genes or chromosomal regions
have been associated with familial forms of the disease. Envi-
ronmental or endogenous toxins may also be important in the
etiology of the disease. Epidemiologic studies reveal that cigarette
smoking, coffee, anti-inflammatory drug use, and high serum uric
acid levels are protective, whereas the incidence of the discus: is
increased in those working in teaching, health care, or f2r:ning,
and in those with lead or manganese exposure or with virarain D
deficiency.

The finding of Lewy bodies (intracellular inclusi-n bodies
containing Q@-synuclein) in fetal dopaminergic cell. transplanted
into the brain of parkinsonian patients some years previously has
provided some support for suggestions that Parkinson's disease
may represent a prion disease.

Staining for -synuclein has revealed that pathology is more
widespread than previously recognized, developing initially in the
olfactory nucleus and lower brainstem (stage 1 of Braak scale),
then the higher brainstem (stage 2), the substantia nigra (stage 3),

