CHAPTER 34 Drugs Used in Disorders of Coagulation 613
Administration & Dosage
The indications for the use of heparin are described in the section
on clinical pharmacology. A plasma concentration of heparin of
0.2—0.4 unit/mL (by protamine titration) or 0.3—-0.7 unit/mL
(anti-Xa units) is considered to be the therapeutic range for
treatment of venous thromboembolic disease. This concentra-
tion generally corresponds to a PTT of 1.5—2.5 times baseline.
However, the use of the PTT for heparin monitoring is problem-
atic. There is no standardization scheme for the PTT as there is
for the prothrombin time (PT) and its international normalized
ratio (INR) in warfarin monitoring. The PTT in seconds for a
given heparin concentration varies between different reagent/
instrument systems. Thus, if the PTT is used for monitoring, the
laboratory should determine the clotting time that corresponds to
the therapeutic range by protamine titration or anti-Xa activity,
as listed above.

In addition, some patients have a prolonged baseline PTT due
to factor deficiency or inhibitors (which could increase bleeding
risk) or lupus anticoagulant (which is not associated with bleeding
tisk but may be associated with thrombosis risk). Using the PTT
to assess heparin effect in such patients is problematic. An alter-

_ native is to use anti-Xa activity to assess heparin concentration, a
test now widely availab le on automated coagulation instruments.
This approach measui res hey parin concentration; however, it does
not provide the global assess: ment of intrinsic pathway integrity

The following strategy is recommended: prior to initiating

oagulant therapy of any type, the integrity of the patient's
: n should be assessed by a careful history of
s, as well as baseline PT and PTT. If there

the cause of this (deficiency or

be c 1 prior to initiating therapy, and
k-benefit assessment. In high-

TT and anti-Xa activity may

arin administration is used,

Id be measured 6 hours after

prolongation of the aPTT to

ue. However, LMW heparin

his case, as no monitoring is

ration of heparin is accom-

n initial bolus injection of

ti-Xa activity in the

