CHAPTER 34 Drugs Used in Disorders of Coagulation 613

Administration & Dosage
The indications for the use of heparin are described in the section 
on clinical pharmacology. A plasma concentration of heparin of 
0.2–0.4 unit/mL (by protamine titration) or 0.3–0.7 unit/mL 
(anti-Xa units) is considered to be the therapeutic range for 
treatment of venous thromboembolic disease. This concentra-
tion generally corresponds to a PTT of 1.5–2.5 times baseline. 
However, the use of the PTT for heparin monitoring is problem-
atic. There is no standardization scheme for the PTT as there is 
for the prothrombin time (PT) and its international normalized 
ratio (INR) in warfarin monitoring. The PTT in seconds for a 
given heparin concentration varies between different reagent/
instrument systems. Thus, if the PTT is used for monitoring, the 
laboratory should determine the clotting time that corresponds to 
the therapeutic range by protamine titration or anti-Xa activity, 
as listed above.
In addition, some patients have a prolonged baseline PTT due 
to factor deficiency or inhibitors (which could increase bleeding 
risk) or lupus anticoagulant (which is not associated with bleeding 
risk but may be associated with thrombosis risk). Using the PTT 
to assess heparin effect in such patients is problematic. An alter-
native is to use anti-Xa activity to assess heparin concentration, a 
test now widely available on automated coagulation instruments. 
This approach measures heparin concentration; however, it does 
not provide the global assessment of intrinsic pathway integrity 
of the PTT.
The following strategy is recommended: prior to initiating 
anticoagulant therapy of any type, the integrity of the patient’s 
hemostatic system should be assessed by a careful history of 
prior bleeding events, as well as baseline PT and PTT. If there 
is a prolonged clotting time, the cause of this (deficiency or 
inhibitor) should be determined prior to initiating therapy, and 
treatment goals stratified to a risk-benefit assessment. In high-
risk patients measuring both the PTT and anti-Xa activity may 
be useful. When intermittent heparin administration is used, 
the aPTT or anti-Xa activity should be measured 6 hours after 
the administered dose to maintain prolongation of the aPTT to 
2–2.5 times that of the control value. However, LMW heparin 
therapy is the preferred option in this case, as no monitoring is 
required in most patients.
Continuous intravenous administration of heparin is accom-
plished via an infusion pump. After an initial bolus injection of 
80–100 units/kg, a continuous infusion of about 15–22 units/kg 
per hour is required to maintain the anti-Xa activity in the 
range of 0.3–0.7 units/mL. Low-dose prophylaxis is achieved 
with subcutaneous administration of heparin, 5000 units 
every 8–12 hours. Because of the danger of hematoma forma-
tion at the injection site, heparin must never be administered 
intramuscularly.
Prophylactic enoxaparin is given subcutaneously in a dosage 
of 30 mg twice daily or 40 mg once daily. Full-dose enoxaparin 
therapy is 1 mg/kg subcutaneously every 12 hours. This cor-
responds to a therapeutic anti-factor Xa level of 0.5–1 unit/mL. 
Selected patients may be treated with enoxaparin 1.5 mg/kg 
once a day, with a target anti-Xa level of 1.5 units/mL. 
