CHAPTER 34 Drugs Used in Disorders of Coagulation 613
Administration & Dosage
The indications for the use of heparin are described in the section
on clinical pharmacology. A plasma concentration of heparin of
0.2-0.4 unit/mL (by protamine titration) or 0.3—-0.7 unit/mL
(anti-Xa units) is considered to be the therapeutic range for
treatment of venous thromboembolic disease. This concentra-
tion generally corresponds to a PTT of 1.5-2.5 times baseline.
However, the use of the PTT for heparin monitoring is problem-
atic. There is no standardization scheme for the PTT as there is
for the prothrombin time (PT) and its international normalized
ratio (INR) in warfarin monitoring. The PTT in seconds for a
given heparin concentration varies between different reagent/
instrument systems. Thus, if the PTT is used for monitoring, the
laboratory should determine the clotting time that corresponds to
the therapeutic range by protamine titration or anti-Xa activity,
as listed above.

In addition, some patients have a prolonged baseline PTT due
to factor deficiency or inhibitors (which could increase bleeding
risk) or lupus anticoagulant (which is not associated with bleeding
risk but may be associated with thrombosis risk). Using the PTT
to assess heparin effect in such patients is problematic. An alter-

native j ‘to use anti-Xa activity to assess heparin concentration, a

e test now widely available on automated coagulation instruments.
This approach measures | heparin concentration; however, it does
not provide the global assessment of intrinsic pathway integrity
of the PTT. ae

The following strategy is recommended: prior to initiating

inticoagulant therapy of any type, the integrity of the patient's
hemostatic system should be assessed by a careful history of
prior bleeding events, as well as baseline PT and PTT. If there
prolonged clotting time, the cause of this (deficiency or
inhibitor) should be determined prior to initiating therapy, and
! ified to a risk-benefit assessment. In high-
iring both the PTT and anti-Xa activity may
nitte heparin administration is used,
vity should be measured 6 hours after
intain pro longation of the aPTT to
| value. However, LMW heparin
ption in this case, as no monitoring is
istration of heparin is accom-
tan initial bolus injection of
on of about 15-22 units/kg

phylaxis is achieved voiced
1, 5000 units

