8, THE CRATCHITS’ CHRISTMAS DINNER

The story of A Christmas Carol deals with the change wrought in

. Ebenezer Scrooge by the visit to him of the ghost of Jacob Marley, his
‘former partner, followed by the visits of three spirits, the Ghost of Christ-
mas Past, the Ghost of Christmas Present, and the Ghost of Christmas
Yet to Come. Scrooge had been a selfish, uncharitable old fellow, but
under the influence of the sights shown him by the spirits, he completely
changed. The selection that follows is an account of the Christmas
celebration at the home of Bob Cratchit, Scrooge’s clerk, who rejoiced
in the munificent salary of fifteen shillings a week. The Ghost of Christ-
mas Present showed this happy family group, poor and humble though
it was, to Scrooge, and this sight helped considerably in his reformation.

Perhaps it was the pleasure the Good Spirit had in
showing off this power of his, or else it was his own kind,
generous, hearty nature, and his sympathy with all poor
men, that led him straight to Scrooge’s clerk’s; for there he
went, and took Scrooge with him; on the threshold of the
door the Spirit smiled and stopped to bless Bob Cratchit’s
dwelling. Think of that!

Then up rose Mrs. Cratchit, Cratchit’s wife, dressed
out but poorly in a twice-turned gown, but brave in ribbons,
which are cheap and made a goodly show for sixpence; and

. . . . p ’
she laid the cloth, assisted by Belinda Cratchit, second of
her daughters, also brave in ribbons; while Master Peter
:  Cratchit plunged a fork into the saucepan of potatoes, and,
getting the corners of his monstrous shirt collar (Bob’s
private property, conferred upon his son and heir in honour
of the day) into his mouth, rejoiced to find himself so
gallantly attired and yearned to show his linen in the fashion-
able parks,
And now two smaller Cratchits, boy and girl, came
tearing in, screaming that outside the baker’s they had smelt
the goose, and known it for their own; and, basking in
luxurious thoughts of sage and onion, these young Cratchits
danced about the table, and exalted Master Peter Cratchit
to the skies, while he (not proud, although his collar nearly
choked him) blew the fire, until the slow potatoes, bubbling
183

